README.md, before:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/sX12DTc.png">

# Project 1 Assessment

# Link to live project:
https://patricia-pan.github.io/p1-assessment/

## Introduction (By Instructor)

This **Introduction** section will be read in class by the instructor.

Students are to have their laptops closed until directed to open them.

Students will be self-directed beginning with the **Instructions & Time Guidelines** section below.

### GOAL

The goal of this final assessment is to gauge your ability to develop a **minimal** front-end web application using HTML, CSS & JavaScript, including your ability to:

- Write HTML that provides the application's overall structure and content. 
- Use CSS to provide styling.
- Use JavaScript to:
	- Define variables that hold application state, cache DOM elements, hold lookup data (constants), etc.
	- Select elements in the DOM.
	- Listen for browser events, such as `click`, being dispatched by DOM elements.
	- Manipulate a DOM element's content and style. 

### DEMO

The instructor will now demonstrate the app you will be building.

### OVERALL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

As you saw, the application's UI consists of:

- A count display
- Two buttons ("+" & "-")
- An `<input>` element

Use the screenshots below as your "wireframes".

Lastly, the styling does not have to be exact, however, the closer it is to the screenshots, the better!

### PROCESS

This assessment is an **individual** assignment - no collaboration please.

The good news is that it's "open book" - you may reference anything on your computer, Google, use notes, etc. 

However, don't spend too much time researching unless you're stuck - **do not over-think this application!!!**

It is estimated that this project assessment will take 60 to 90 minutes to complete. However, you have 2 hours should you need the extra time.

## Instructions & Time Guidelines (You've Got This!)

Please follow the following steps in order:

- **STEP 1 - Prepare** (&asymp; 5 minutes)
- **STEP 2 - Set Up the App** (&asymp; 5 minutes)
- **STEP 3 - Implement the App's Requirements** (&asymp; 40 minutes)
- **STEP 4 - Deploy to GitHub Pages** (&asymp; 10 minutes)
- **STEP 5 - Bonus**

**The times above are just estimated guidelines.**

## Assessment Steps to Complete

### STEP 1 - Prepare (5 minutes)

Briefly read through the rest of this assignment to better understand what is required before starting to code.

### STEP 2 - Set Up the App (5 minutes)

Be sure to follow best practices when setting up the project:

- Create a folder named `project-1-assessment` outside of all repos.
- Create a `js` and `css` folder.
- Touch `index.html`
- Touch `js/main.js`, and include it in `index.html` such that it runs after the DOM is ready.
- Touch `css/main.css` and link it in.

### STEP 3 - Implement the App's Requirements (40 minutes)

#### Upon Loading

When the application initially loads, the `<input>`'s value should be set to `1` and the initial count of `0` is rendered such that the display looks something like this:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/nsLfnoG.png">

#### When the "+" Button is Clicked

When the "+" button is clicked, the value entered in the `<input>` is added to the count and the new count value displayed.

For example, if the "+" button is clicked immediately after the app loading, the display should look something like this:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/xNdlBn2.png">

#### When the "-" Button is Clicked

When the "-" button is clicked, the value entered in the `<input>` is subtracted from the count and the new count value displayed.

Continuing from the previous example, if the number 200 is typed in the `<input>` and the "-" button is clicked, the display should look something like this:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/QjtcAJT.png">

#### Hovering Over the "+" or "-" Button

When the mouse is over the "+" or "-" button, the button should reverse its background and text colors:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/agT3aGX.png">

Congrats, that's all there is to it!

### STEP 4 - Deploy to GitHub Pages (10 minutes)

Please follow the steps from the in-class lesson to deploy to Github Pages.

**Slack the deployed app's link to your instructors - congrats, you are done!**

### STEP 4 - Bonus

As a bonus, display the count in red if it is a negative value!

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/LCSG1Wg.png">

## Hints

- Prioritize functionality over layout/styling. Once the functionality is complete, then work on styling to get the UI as close as possible to the wireframes/images (see the below hint for using flexbox for layout).
- The principles in [Guide on How to Build a Browser App](https://github.com/ga-students/wdi-dt-57/blob/master/work/w01/d5/03-guide-to-building-a-browser-app.md) apply!
- Use CSS flexbox to ease horizontal and vertical centering:

	```css
	section {
		display: flex;  /* defaults to row layout */
		justify-content: center;  /* centers items horizontally in row layout */
		align-items: center;  /* centers vertically in row layout */
		/* flex-direction: column; will set layout to column instead of row */
	}
	```

Commit message:

Added note about how initial commit history is stored on the master branch, and not the main (default) branch due to merge conflicts and how the code had to be manually transferred over (ie copy and pasted).

README.md, after:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/sX12DTc.png">

# Project 1 Assessment

# Link to live project:
https://patricia-pan.github.io/p1-assessment/

Note: Initial commit history is stored on master branch, before all my code had to be manually copied and pasted over to the main (default) branch due to merge conflicts.

## Introduction (By Instructor)

This **Introduction** section will be read in class by the instructor.

Students are to have their laptops closed until directed to open them.

Students will be self-directed beginning with the **Instructions & Time Guidelines** section below.

### GOAL

The goal of this final assessment is to gauge your ability to develop a **minimal** front-end web application using HTML, CSS & JavaScript, including your ability to:

- Write HTML that provides the application's overall structure and content. 
- Use CSS to provide styling.
- Use JavaScript to:
	- Define variables that hold application state, cache DOM elements, hold lookup data (constants), etc.
	- Select elements in the DOM.
	- Listen for browser events, such as `click`, being dispatched by DOM elements.
	- Manipulate a DOM element's content and style. 

### DEMO

The instructor will now demonstrate the app you will be building.

### OVERALL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

As you saw, the application's UI consists of:

- A count display
- Two buttons ("+" & "-")
- An `<input>` element

Use the screenshots below as your "wireframes".

Lastly, the styling does not have to be exact, however, the closer it is to the screenshots, the better!

### PROCESS

This assessment is an **individual** assignment - no collaboration please.

The good news is that it's "open book" - you may reference anything on your computer, Google, use notes, etc. 

However, don't spend too much time researching unless you're stuck - **do not over-think this application!!!**

It is estimated that this project assessment will take 60 to 90 minutes to complete. However, you have 2 hours should you need the extra time.

## Instructions & Time Guidelines (You've Got This!)

Please follow the following steps in order:

- **STEP 1 - Prepare** (&asymp; 5 minutes)
- **STEP 2 - Set Up the App** (&asymp; 5 minutes)
- **STEP 3 - Implement the App's Requirements** (&asymp; 40 minutes)
- **STEP 4 - Deploy to GitHub Pages** (&asymp; 10 minutes)
- **STEP 5 - Bonus**

**The times above are just estimated guidelines.**

## Assessment Steps to Complete

### STEP 1 - Prepare (5 minutes)

Briefly read through the rest of this assignment to better understand what is required before starting to code.

### STEP 2 - Set Up the App (5 minutes)

Be sure to follow best practices when setting up the project:

- Create a folder named `project-1-assessment` outside of all repos.
- Create a `js` and `css` folder.
- Touch `index.html`
- Touch `js/main.js`, and include it in `index.html` such that it runs after the DOM is ready.
- Touch `css/main.css` and link it in.

### STEP 3 - Implement the App's Requirements (40 minutes)

#### Upon Loading

When the application initially loads, the `<input>`'s value should be set to `1` and the initial count of `0` is rendered such that the display looks something like this:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/nsLfnoG.png">

#### When the "+" Button is Clicked

When the "+" button is clicked, the value entered in the `<input>` is added to the count and the new count value displayed.

For example, if the "+" button is clicked immediately after the app loading, the display should look something like this:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/xNdlBn2.png">

#### When the "-" Button is Clicked

When the "-" button is clicked, the value entered in the `<input>` is subtracted from the count and the new count value displayed.

Continuing from the previous example, if the number 200 is typed in the `<input>` and the "-" button is clicked, the display should look something like this:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/QjtcAJT.png">

#### Hovering Over the "+" or "-" Button

When the mouse is over the "+" or "-" button, the button should reverse its background and text colors:

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/agT3aGX.png">

Congrats, that's all there is to it!

### STEP 4 - Deploy to GitHub Pages (10 minutes)

Please follow the steps from the in-class lesson to deploy to Github Pages.

**Slack the deployed app's link to your instructors - congrats, you are done!**

### STEP 4 - Bonus

As a bonus, display the count in red if it is a negative value!

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/LCSG1Wg.png">

## Hints

- Prioritize functionality over layout/styling. Once the functionality is complete, then work on styling to get the UI as close as possible to the wireframes/images (see the below hint for using flexbox for layout).
- The principles in [Guide on How to Build a Browser App](https://github.com/ga-students/wdi-dt-57/blob/master/work/w01/d5/03-guide-to-building-a-browser-app.md) apply!
- Use CSS flexbox to ease horizontal and vertical centering:

	```css
	section {
		display: flex;  /* defaults to row layout */
		justify-content: center;  /* centers items horizontally in row layout */
		align-items: center;  /* centers vertically in row layout */
		/* flex-direction: column; will set layout to column instead of row */
	}
	```
